Do you ever see guys for whom everything just seems to fall into place? They have the most attractive, successful partners, they're in great shape, and their professional life is always firing on all cylinders ! It might be tempting to assume they've found a wish-granting genie, but societally we look at guys like that as alpha males. 

Being an alpha male is about taking control of your destiny to accomplish anything. The most common traits of an alpha male are bravery, confidence, decisiveness, and leadership. Alpha males are strong independent confident men who knew what they want and are not afraid to pursue it at any cost. An alpha male looks at each day as an opportunity to better himself, his position in life, and the lives of those around him. He's always looking for the next way to get ahead - finding side that can turn into long-term entrepreneurship, or finding a career that fulfills him. The alpha male takes care of himself and plans for tomorrow while making today the best it can be. An alpha male takes charge of his life instead of running away from it through leisure and vice. 

Alpha males are brave, a real alpha looks at the potential downsides of his risks or the negative aspects of his life and accepts them with an understanding that staying still is worse than trying and failing. Alpha males are confident i.e. approaching every subject and scenario with confidence, and sometimes that means leaving a situation to the content experts. Alpha males are decisive. They are born leaders who will strive toward his own goal, while still making sure the people around him are cared for and protected. 

An alpha male feels fear and then intentionally goes through with his planned course of action. Understanding the risks and being confident enough to deal with the potential downsides of a choice is the defining trait of an alpha male. An alpha male always seek to understand that reason someone else is angry or displeased with you. Alpha males drive us towards discomfort and growth even when we just want to zone out. Alpha males find a purpose and pursue it rapidly, passionately, until they can make it their career. An alpha male seeks to better his society, starting with his community. If they truly want to improve their career, alpha males never wait for someone to permit them to better their own life. Alpha males find happiness in the things they love and mostly in their life goals, they don't seek permission to be happy from other people.

Alpha males pursue their dreams without any embarrassment. Alpha males treat themselves very well. Alpha males do everything in their power to be a man of word, and eventually everyone they meet will remember that about them. Alpha males define their values and stick to them. Alpha males cultivates the power to say something in unpleasant situations, no matter where they occur. They stand up for themselves and those around them. An alpha male understands that growth comes from discomfort and learn to desire the discomfort that comes along with improving yourself. Alpha males are assertive about what they want, even if it means upsetting someone else, but at the same time, they don't mistake it as a license to be boorish or rude. Alpha males are kind and helpful to other people because they truly care about them.

Alpha males find inward strength to move forward, even when things are difficult. They also understand that even if everything falls apart, they can rely on their intellect and will to change their life for the better. Being alpha has nothing to do with how other people view you, it's everything to do with how you view yourself. An alpha male strives for growth, they seek to better the lives of those around them for the sake of it, not to get something in return. Being alpha means taking control of your life and living it to the fullest. Highly intelligent, confident, and successful, alpha males represent about 70% of all senior executives.Alphas reach the top ranks in large organizations because they are natural leaders and are comfortable with responsibility in a way nonalphas can never be. Most people feel stress when they have to make important decisions; alphas get stressed when tough decisions don’t rest in their capable hands.

Independent and action oriented, alphas take extraordinarily high levels of performance for granted, both in themselves and in others. Alphas think very fast, and this rapid processing can prevent them from listening to others. Their impatience can cause them to miss subtle but important details. Alphas, moreover, have opinions about everything, and they rarely admit that those opinions might be wrong or incomplete. Early in life, alphas realize that they are smarter than most people, smarter perhaps than even their parents and teachers; as adults they believe that their insights are unique and so put complete faith in their instincts. Unemotional and analytical in their cognitive style, alphas are eager to learn about business, technology, and things but have little or no natural curiosity about people or feelings.