The Einstein-Schrodinger theory without a cosmological constant was originally proposed by Einstein and Straus in 1946. In this form it is also known as "Einstein's Unified Field Theory", or the "Einstein-Straus Theory", or the "Hermitian Theory of Relativity", or the "Generalized Theory of Gravitation", or the "Relativistic Theory of the Non-symmetric Field". In 1947 Schrodinger showed that the theory can be derived from a very simple Lagrangian density if a cosmological constant is included. This more general theory is usually called "Schrodinger's Affine Field Theory" or the "Einstein-Schrodinger Theory". The Einstein-Schrodinger theory is a generalization of ordinary general relativity which allows a non-symmetric fundamental tensor. When Einstein and Schrodinger developed the theory they suspected that this fundamental tensor might contain both the metric and electromagnetic field, and they hoped that the theory would unify gravitation and electromagnetism. However, using the EIH method it was shown way back in 1953 that the original theory apparently does not predict a Lorentz force between charged particles. Since then there has been some interest in the theory by a few researchers who dispute the proof of the missing Lorentz force. Other researchers have assumed that the theory is correct but represents something other than gravity and electromagnetism. Still others have investigated theories which are significantly modified versions of the original theory. In general though, there has not been much interest in the Einstein-Schrodinger theory since the 1950s. Here are a few of Einstein's and Schrodinger's original papers on this topic.

Einstein-Schrodinger Theory :-
Recently it has been shown that a well motivated modification of the Einstein-Schrodinger theory does indeed closely approximate ordinary general relativity and electromagnetism (Einstein-Maxwell theory), the modification being the addition of a large cosmological constant. This cosmological constant which multiplies the symmetric metric is assumed to be nearly cancelled by Schrodinger's ``bare'' cosmological constant which multiplies the nonsymmetric fundamental tensor, resulting in a total "physical" cosmological constant which matches measurement. The fact that these two cosmological constants multiply different fields has the effect of creating a Lorentz force, and also fixes some other problems with the original theory. One possible origin of the large cosmological constant is from zero-point fluctuations. It is reasonable to assume that the Einstein-Schrodinger theory must eventually be quantized to accurately predict reality, and this cosmological constant can be viewed as a kind of zeroth order quantization effect. The cancellation of cosmological constants resembles renormalization in quantum field theory, as in the cancellation of large particle ``self energies'' with large ``bare'' masses resulting in small ``physical'' masses. Another possible origin of the large cosmological constant is from a Higgs field vacuum expectation value as in GUT theories. The Lambda-renormalized Einstein-Schrodinger theory closely approximates Einstein-Maxwell theory regardless of the origin of the cosmological constant, and it becomes exactly Einstein-Maxwell theory in the limit as this cosmological constant goes to infinity. In addition, when the fields are generalized to be composed of Hermitian matrices, the theory closely approximates Einstein-Maxwell-Yang-Mills theory. This suggests several possibilities for a complete unified theory by using the Fermion and Higgs terms of GUT theories as sources.

The Einstein-Infeld-Hoffmann (EIH) Method :-

The Einstein-Infeld-Hoffmann (EIH) method is a way of deriving the equations of particle motion for general relativity and similar theories, by finding approximate two-particle solutions of the field equations. For Einstein-Maxwell theory (ordinary general relativity with electromagnetism), the EIH method allows the equations of motion for both charged and neutral pariticles to be derived directly from the electro-vac Einstein-Maxwell field equations. For neutral particles the method has been verified to Post-Newtonian order, and it was how the Post-Newtonian equations of motion were first derived in 1938. For charged particles the method has been verified to Post-Coulombian order, meaning that it gives the same result as the Darwin Lagrangian. The EIH method is valuable because it does not require any additional assumptions, such as the postulate that neutral particles follow geodesics, or the ad hoc inclusion of source terms in the Lagrangian density and field equations.

In electro-vac Einstein-Maxwell theory, the exact solutions for stationary and rotating bodies are the Reisner-Nordstrom and Kerr-Newman solutions (which become the Schwarzschild and Kerr solutions when uncharged). Einstein-Maxwell theory is non-linear, so a two-particle solution does not result by summing together two one-particle solutions at different locations. Two-particle solutions exist, but only if the two particles are accelerating relative to each other, and it just happens that this acceleration obeys the Lorentz-force equation. This contrasts with pre-Einstein electrodynamics where the Lorentz force equation is postulated independent of Maxwell's equations. In pre-Einstein electrodynamics all the field equations are linear, so a two-particle solution is found by summing two stationary Q/r^2 solutions at separate locations, but this solution is essentially ignored because it contradicts the Lorentz force equation.

The EIH method is made to work with non-linear theories like Einstein-Maxwell theory. With the EIH method, one does not just find equations of motion, but rather one finds approximate solutions g_ik and F_ik of the field equations which correspond to a system of two or more particles. These approximate solutions will in general contain 1/r^p singularities, and these are considered to represent particles. It is required that the 1/r^p fields in these approximate solutions should approach exact solutions like the Reisner-Nordstrom solution asymptotically, and this requirement constrains the motions of the singularities. With this requirement, it is reasonable to assume that the motions of the 1/r^p singularities should approximate the motions of singularities in exact two-particle solutions. Any event horizon or other unusual feature of exact solutions at small radii is irrelevant because the singularities are assumed to be separated by much larger distances, and because the method relies greatly on surface integrals done at large distances from the singularities.

For electro-vac Einstein-Maxwell theory the EIH method predicts the Lorentz force equation to Coulombian order, and the equations resulting from the Darwin Lagrangian to post-Coulombian order. The fact that these results agree with measurement demonstrates that the electro-vac Einstein-Maxwell field equations by themselves describe a universe with some resemblance to reality. Such a universe contains charged point particles (in the form of Reisner-Nordstrom or Kerr-Newman solutions) which interact with one another according to the correct classical equations of motion, and it also contains electromagnetic waves and part of neutral matter general relativity. And apart from dubious arguments about cosmic censorship of naked singularities, there is no reason why these charged point particles can't have light masses like an electron.

It is little known among physicists that electro-vac Einstein-Maxwell theory can predict charged point particles AND their interactions just by finding solutions (via the EIH method) of the field equations. It seems important, yet it is not in any general relativity or electromagnetics textbook that I am aware of, and it was not taught in any class that I took while getting my PhD. In fact, the references above are almost the only ones I am aware of that discuss it in any detail. It is important most of all because it illuminates the search for a more complete theory. It suggests that the purely classical version of a complete unified field theory should also lack a source term in the Lagrangian, and that fermions such as electrons should originate as point-particle solutions of this Lagrangian. Einstein-Maxwell theory can be generalized to Einstein-Maxwell-Yang-Mills theory to get the additional bosons of the real universe (i.e. Z, W+, W- bosons and gluons, in addition to photons/electromagnetic waves). The point-particle solutions of electro-vac Einstein-Maxwell-Yang-Mills theory are found by generalizing the Reisner-Nordstrom solution so the charge is any of the N^2 square-roots of the identity matrix (for example the identity matrix plus the Pauli matrices for N=2), and the EIH method can be applied to such solutions (see the papers link above). It would be most beautiful if the point-particle solutions of Einstein-Maxwell-Yang-Mills theory were associated with the additional fermions of the real universe (i.e. neutrinos and quarks, in addition to electrons). Of course any theory must somehow be quantized to represent the real universe. The results above suggest that in addition to 2nd quantization, there should also be a 1st quantization step where fermion wave-functions are substituted for point-particle solutions, and where a Dirac type of source term is included in the Lagrangian. At present, it is not known how to 2nd quantize Einstein-Maxwell-Yang-Mills theory with sources, and this is certainly an obstacle to this idea, but one can only hope that a way around it will be found eventually. The usual practice for 30-40 years has been to assume that point-particle solutions of Einstein-Maxwell-Yang-Mills theory have no connection with fermions, and that there is no such thing as 1st quantization.

A Mercury Colonization :-

There is a good reason for colonizing another planet, which is to avoid extinction if the Earth is hit by a 10km or larger asteroid, as has happened many times in the Earth's history. Colonization of Mercury appears to be a very real and practical possibility, whereas colonization of Mars or the other planets, moons or asteroids is really more in the realm of fantasy. The first thought about Mercury is that it would have very high temperatures and no water, because the equatorial surface temperature ranges between -183oC and 427oC as the planet rotates. But an analysis of temperature vs. latitude and depth shows that the temperature is nearly constant at room temperature (22+/-1oC) in underground rings circling the planet's poles, and deeper than .7 meter below the surface. Similar results are found using numerical techniques in an Icarus paper, Vol. 141, 179–193 (1999). Researchers at Arecibo observatory have found high radar-reflective areas near Mercury's poles in permanently shadowed crater bottoms, and this material was recently proven to be nearly pure water ice using neutron spectrometry data from the Mercury MESSENGER spacecraft, as described in Thermal Stability of Volatiles in the North Polar Region of Mercury and Evidence for Water Ice Near Mercury's North Pole from MESSENGER Neutron Spectrometer Measurements. Many of the craters are 1-2 km deep. The wavelength dependence of radar signals indicates a minimum of several meters of water ice over a total area of 1010m2, resulting in 1014-1015kg of water. A more recent estimate using MESSENGER data is .5-20 meters of water ice over 5.65x1010m2, resulting in 2x1013-1015kg of water. Laser altimeter reflections indicate that most of the ice is covered by a dark material which is thought to be a layer of hydrocarbons about 10cm thick (amounting to ~5.65x109m3), as described in Bright and Dark Polar Deposits on Mercury: Evidence for Surface Volatiles.

Agriculture would be possible with 2x1013-1015 kg of water covered by 5.65x109m3 of carbon-rich hydrocarbons. Crops would provide food and oxygen, and consume the carbon dioxide we exhale. All human habitation and agriculture would be underground to avoid temperature extremes, ionizing radiation, and the loss of oxygen, water and carbon dioxide to the surface. Filtered light could be used for crops, but it is likely that rapidly growing crop varieties could be developed which would take advantage of the high light intensity and the long Mercury day, where sunrise to sunset lasts for 88 Earth days. X-ray spectrometry for Si, Mg, Al, S, Ca, Ti, Fe, Cl, Cr and Mn, gamma-ray spectrometry for K, Th and U and gamma-ray spectrometry for Al, Ca, S, Fe and Na from Mercury MESSENGER shows the following average composition of Mercury's soil compared to Earth.
Average Element Concentration (%weight)
Planet	O	Si	Mg	Al	S	Ca	Ti	Fe	Cl	Cr	Mn	Na	K	Th	U	C	N	H
Mercury	42.3	24.6	12.5	7.1	2.3	5.9	.2	1.9	< .2	< .5	< .5	2.9	.1	.00002	.00001	?	?	?
Earth	47	28	2.5	8	.04	4	.5	5	.02	.02	.1	2	2	.0007	.0002	.1	.002	.1
The consistency of the X-ray and gamma-ray spectrometry data indicates that the compositions above apply down to depths of tens of centimeters, and that the soil is homogeneous to this depth. It is not known for sure that there is enough of certain elements to grow crops, particularly the volatile elements C and N which cannot be measured by these methods. However, the fact that Mercury's K/Th ratio is higher than Earth strongly suggests that Mercury's volatile elements have not been boiled away at some point in the planet's history. The S abundance supports this conclusion. The K abundance also supports this conclusion, being similar to the abundance on Earth as a whole. However, K abundance is low compared to that in the Earth's continental crust, which might be a problem for plant growth. It is also possible that some of the elements are locked up in minerals which cannot be metabolized by plants. The MESSENGER probe is currently gathering ultraviolet and infrared spectrometry data and other data about the soil and the high radar-reflective areas, so some of these questions might be answered soon.

Several other aspects of Mercury make it a good prospect for a colony. One very important advantage is the high solar light intensity, which is stronger than on Earth by a factor of 10.6 at perihelion and 4.6 at aphelion. This strong light intensity would provide virtually unlimited power via electronic solar arrays, and the resulting vertical temperature gradients of ~200oC/m would provide even more unlimited power via thermal solar arrays. With such an unlimited and inexpensive power source, almost anything needed for survival could be produced. The gravity on Mercury is 38% that of Earth, which is strong enough to avoid the reduction in bone mass that occurs in very low gravity and weightless environments. There are no temperature variations over periods longer than the Mercury day (like Earth's seasons), which avoids the need for heating/cooling equipment within the 22+/-1oC underground rings mentioned above. This occurs because Mercury's orbit is synchronized with its rotation such that 0deg and 180deg longitudes always experience midnight and noon at perihelion whereas 90deg and 270deg longitudes always experience midnight and noon at aphelion. The rings would be about 5000km long, similar to the diameter of the planet. They would be only 20-60km wide because of horizontal temperature gradients of .035-.097oC/km. This results in a total area of about 40x5000=200,000km2 of 22+/-1oC temperature around each pole. The rings could also be extended hundreds of floors downwards, essentially by making underground skyscrapers. And the entire area between the rings and the poles could also be populated (albeit more sparsely) simply by using abundant solar power. Now, an underground existence may sound undesirable to many people. However, that fact is that most people spend 95% of their lives indoors, and from a quality-of-life perspective there is little difference between indoors above ground and indoors below ground. And the colony could still have natural areas, trees, flowers, parks, lakes, wild animals, etcetera. In fact it would probably need all of these things to maintain the ecosystem. The only difference from Earth is that they would be in man-made underground greenhouses instead of on the planet surface.

Mars automatically comes to mind when discussing planetary colonization, and manned missions to Mars have been the long term focus of US space exploration plans since 2004. But despite all the hype, Mars is really a poor prospect for colonization. The solar light intensity on Mars is .43 that of Earth, which makes solar power and agriculture much less practical than on Mercury. The gravity of Mars is 38% of Earth, essentially equal to Mercury. The magnetic field of Mars is .1% of Earth, and its atmosphere density is 2% that of Earth, so protection from ionizing radiation would require underground habitation, the same as on Mercury. The average equatorial surface temperature of Mars is about -45oC (-50oF), which would be the constant temperature underground. And of course the temperature gets much lower away from the equator. Such low temperatures can be withstood by machines such as the Spirit, Opportunity and Curiosity Mars rovers, but not by people. Human habitation of Mars would be problematic because of the very low temperatures, limited solar power capacity, and a biological history which precludes oil, gas and coal deposits. Human habitation would probably be impossible without nuclear power, and uranium mining and nuclear plants would be very challenging in an airless, cold enviroment. Also, concentrated uranium deposits are probably less common than on Earth because they depend on sedimentary and hydrothermal processes which are more prevalent on Earth. The other planets, moons and asteroids have even worse drawbacks than Mars.

Asteroid impacts of 5km diameter or greater occur roughly once every 10 million years, and those of 10km or greater occur roughly once every 100 million years. In the past 540 million years there have been 5 extinction events where more than 50% of the Earth's species were killed off, including the Permian-Triassic extinction where 90% of the species were lost. Most scientists think that some of these were caused by asteriod impacts. A well proven example is the Chicxulub impact which resulted from a 10km asteroid impact at the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary 65 million years ago and caused the extinction of 70% of the Earth's species, including the dinosaurs. Even larger impacts have occured at earlier times, of which only a few are known because their impact craters get erased by the Earth's geological processes over time. It is thought that a 20km or larger asteroid would cause the extinction of all higher order animals and plants, leaving only microorganisms. While the likelihood of such an event is very small in any given year, it could happen at any time, and it is almost guaranteed to happen eventually.

Given the facts above, it appears that the focus of US space exploration plans should be shifted from Mars to Mercury. In particular, the US has already had four successful Mars rovers, so how about a Mercury rover mission. Such a mission could focus on a detailed analysis of the water ice, the dark material covering the water ice, and the soil, either on-site or by bringing samples back to Earth, as proposed by one scientist. Analysis of these materials would be critical for a Mercury colony, and it would also be of interest from a purely scientific standpoint. How deep are the water ice deposits? On-site echosounding measurements would provide a much better estimate than the existing measurements, which really just give a lower bound. What is the isotopic composition of the water ice, which would give clues about its origin? What other materials are mixed in with it? Would the water need to be purged of poisonous contaminants before it could be used for drinking or agriculture? Is the dark covering material made out of hydrocarbons as several scientists have suggested? How much of this material is there, and could it be used as a source of carbon for agriculture? What is the soil concentration of Carbon and Nitrogen, elements that could not be measured by MESSENGER's gamma-ray and X-ray spectrometers? What minerals are present, and are some of the elements critical for agriculture locked up in minerals which cannot be metabolized by plants? Perhaps it would be best to land the rover near a small crater with water deposits, so it could hide in the crater from the hot sun, but project solar cells or a mirror over the edge. Some good landing sites could probably be found among the large number of high resolution images taken by MESSENGER.

The main motivation for investigating Mercury is its potential for hosting a self-sustaining human colony, which would protect humanity from extinction in the event of a catastrophic asteroid impact. A second motivation is simply to increase our scientific understanding of the solar system. It is very unlikely that Mercury could ever be a practical source of minerals or energy to be transported back to Earth, or that Mercury would ever have any other Earth-serving economic value. But surely preservation of the human species and scientific curiosity are better motivations than economic benefit. Humans are part of a universe where time is measured in billions of years. We need to take a long term view, and consider the future of the human species in the next thousand, million and billion years, not just the next 10 or 100 years.

A Mercury colony would be a challenging and costly effort for sure. The voyage to Mercury might take 6.5 years like the MESSENGER trip because of the large velocity change involved, and the spacecraft would require heavy shielding against ionizing radiation. Much planning and preparation would be needed to ensure that the colony could get through the first weeks, months, and years, with little or no resupply from Earth. However, a Mercury colony appears to be a real possibilty using current technology, not a fantasy for the distant future. “People joke about it, but it’s not so crazy, really,” said David A. Paige, a professor of geology at U.C.L.A. involved with the water ice discovery. In fact, if we delay until the distant future, or even 50 years or so, such an effort probably will become impossible. This is because us humans will consume the Earth's non-renewable energy and mineral resources almost completely within the next 50-100 years, severely reducing our discretionary income for costly activities such as space travel. We should be pursuing a Mercury colony now, before it is too late.