Mechanics of a Good Novel

Show Not Tell

It's better to show through a character's actions than "tell" by having the narrator describe. Please do not "tell."
 
Example 1: "Garth became nervous" is "telling." It is better to "show" with: "Garth's hands trembled."
Example 2: "Garth did not want to go down the hall with the Major" is "telling." It is better to "show" with: "What?" Garth said. "There's no way in hell I'm going with you!"

Body Movement

Occasional reference to body movement and scene interaction is important so that characters are not disembodied talking heads. It's also important to occasionally use body movement before a person talks, in order to establish who is talking.
 
Example - 
"When are you going to leave for France?" John asked could be cast as - 
John took a slow breath. "When are you going to leave for France?"
(Many times beginning authors make it hard to figure out who is talking, but a quick reference to body movement before the speaker speaks makes it all clear.)

Short Better Than Long

In real life, people often talk in short sentences and phrases, rather than in long drawn-out sentences with big words. Another dialog tip: use contractions often. For example, a character may be more apt to say "I'll" than "I will."
 
Break the Dialog

Always insert a "he said" or "she said" as early as possible into a line of dialog (if a "he said" is even needed at all).
 
Example:
Never do: "Yes, I will kill him, but not until you buy the peaches for dinner," he said.
Instead do:
"Yes," he said, "I will kill him, but not until you buy the peaches for dinner."

Use Active Voice

Don't say: "The paper was placed on the wall by the doctor." Use active voice: "The doctor placed the paper on the wall."
 
Avoid Omniscient Narrator

Books have more immediacy if you stay within one character's head and therefore the narrator does not have knowledge of what other people are thinking. For example, if you are in Jake's head, we are in Jake's head for most of the book. We can't suddenly know how Melinda is feeling. Jake doesn't read her mind. We can suggest how she feels through Jake's opinions and what he sees and hears, and what she says and does. (Some people use an omniscient narrator, but the best books avoid it.)
 
Don't Rush The Scene

If a scene sounds rushed, with too little attention to detail and texture, then more words are needed to draw out the action and suspense.
 
Natural Dialog

If you are unsure if the dialog sounds natural, read it out loud to yourself. This is a great way to make sure the dialog is natural.
 
Involve All Senses

To really get the reader involved, try to stimulate more of the reader's senses. For example, if you've gone ten pages without stimulating the reader (and character in the book) with an odor, or tactile feeling, sound, or taste, the book will have less immediacy.
 
Use "Said"

I notice some beginning writers seem to dislike using "said" and try to replace the word "said" with words like commanded, remarked, uttered, began, etc. Perhaps they feel that too many "saids" stick out. However, you don't have to be afraid of using too many "saids." In fact, it is much worse to try substitutions. The best writers use "said" almost all the time and let the dialog convey the meaning. For example,
 
"Get out of here now!" he commanded.
is much worse than
"Get out of here now!" he said.
The word "commanded" is an unnecessary distraction. In any case, it's obvious the sentence is a command. When readers read "said", their eyes barely pause. The "said" goes almost unnoticed. This is what you want. Replacement words, such as "remarked", stick out obtrusively, which is what you don't want. For these reasons, some authors don't even use "he asked" for questions; rather they do: "Where is it?" he said.

Don't Begin To

Don't have your characters "begin to do something," "try to do something," and so forth. Just have them do it. Example: "Mary began to skip down the block." Change to "Mary skipped down the block."

Avoid "as he"

Avoid excessive "as he" constructs. Example: "Mary turned on the TV as she thought all the time about Joe." Change to: "Mary turned on the TV, thinking all the time about Joe." Or, better yet: "Mary turned on the TV and thought about Joe."

Provide Character Reactions

Example: When something is said or done to a character that is out of the ordinary, have the character respond. New writers often forget to show the responses of characters before moving on with the plot.

Which or That?

Use "which" with a comma when the phrase seems as if it could easily be set off with parentheses and make sense. 
Examples with "that" and "which": 1) I like dogs that bark. 2) I like the German Shepherd species, which has pointed ears, a tan coat, and teeth that rip.

"Like" or "As If"
The word "like" should not be used preceding a clause with a subject and a verb. Examples:

It felt like a furry ball.
It felt as if a furry ball rolled around in his stomach.

Split Infinitive
Some publishers ask that you don't put an adverb between "to" and "verb."
Wrong: "to carefully create." Correct: "to create carefully." (However, I tend to disregard this rule whenever it sounds "wrong" to my ear. You can usually ignore this rule, too.)

Wordiness
Reduce wordiness by changing:
"stooped down" to "stoop"
"rose up" to "rose"
"penetrated through" to "penetrate"
"caught sight of" to "saw"
"in the event that" to "if"
"at the present time" to "now"
etc.

Also change:

"towards" to "toward"
"besides" to "beside"

To Lie/To Lay
The verb form of lay takes an object, and lie does not. Example:

He laid the shovel on the ground.
He wanted to lie on the ground.

Since/Because
"Since" should be used when time is involved.
I have been sad since you arrived.

Use because when implying a cause.
I have been sad because my house burned down.

Each Other/One Another
"Each other" is used when you refer to two people. "One another" is used when you refer to three or more people.

Example: Mindy and John bumped into each other.

Participial Phrases
Modifying phrases that start with verbs ending in"ing" or "ed" require a comma before the phrase.

He pushed the ball, using a can of peaches.

Whoever/Whomever
If you can't figure out when to use whoever or whomever, substitute the word "he." If it sounds better to use "him," than use whomever. Is 1 or 2 (below) correct?

1. It was as if whoever had killed them....
2. It was as if whomever had killed them.... "It was as if he" sounds better than "it was as if him," so use whoever.

Further/Farther
Farther is used to refer to physical distance.
She runs farther than I do.
Further is an adverb meaning to a greater degree.
I want further training.

Commas and Adjectives
Separate two or more adjectives with commas if each adjective modifies the noun equally.
They are brave, studious students.
This was a beautiful Persian carpet.
(Here "beautiful" modifies the Persian carpet.)

Rise/Raise
Use rise (rose, risen) when you mean to move upward.
Use raise (raised) when an object is being moved upward.
Joe raised his foot.
Joe rose early in the morning.

On to/Onto
Use onto when you mean "to a position on"
He tossed the spider onto the table. He held on to her foot.

Insectlike
Should you use "insectlike" or "insect-like?" Do not precede "like" with a hyphen unless the letter "l" would be tripled: bill-like, lifelike, businesslike, shell-like.

Do precede like with a hyphen if the word is three syllables, e.g. intestine-like.
Do precede like with a hyphen if the word is a proper name, e.g. Clinton-like. Exception, use Christlike.
Do precede like with a hyphen if the word is a compound word.

On the other hand, when "like" is a prefix... Follow with a hyphen when used as a prefix meaning similar to, e.g. like-minded. No hyphen are used in words that have meanings of their own, e.g. likelihood, likewise, likeness.

Subjunctive
The subjunctive form of the verb is used to express something contrary to fact. Use "were" in all of the following:
If I were king...
I wish you were here...
It was as if I were...
Usually, "as if" and "as though" suggest a subjunctive mood. The following sentence (which starts with if) is not contrary to fact so it is not subjunctive: "Jack didn't know what color the dog was. If the dog was black, Joe could find it in the snow."

Ellipses
Ellipses can be used to indicate a pause in dialogue or a trailing off of dialogue. If a complete sentence is fading, use four dots, with no space between the final word and the four dots. (One of the dots serves as a period.) If a sentence fragment is trailing off, use three dots, leaving a space between the end of the final word and the first dot.