There are many interesting facts about humans. Below mentioned are some of the fascinating ones :-
We are taller in the morning than at night.
Our stomach manufactures a new lining every three days to avoid digesting itself.
Our body produces enough heat in only thirty minutes to boil a half-gallon of water.
Human bone is as strong as granite, relative to supporting resistance.
A person will die from lack of sleep sooner than they will from starvation, which usually takes a few weeks.
Human foetuses react to loud rock music by kicking.
A single human blood cell takes only 60 seconds to make a complete circuit of the body.
An average person produces about 25,000 quarts of saliva in a lifetime, enough to fill two swimming pools.
Nerve impulses travel to and from the brain at speeds of up to 250 miles per hour, faster than a Formula 1 race car.
An adult is made up of 7,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 (7 octillion) atoms. For perspective, there are 300,000,000,000 (300 billion) stars in our galaxy.
We humans are the best long-distance runners on the planet.
Humans are bioluminescent and glow in the dark. The light that we emit is 1,000 times weaker than our human eyes are able to pick up.
When we look at an object, the image of that object appears upside down on our retina. However, our brain automatically corrects for this, allowing us to perceive the object the right side up.
Like fingerprints, every person has a unique tongue print.
With the 60,000 miles of blood vessels inside the average human body, we could circumnavigate Earth two and a half times.
Everyone has a completely unique smell.
There're more bacteria in our mouth than there are people in the world.
Most of the dust underneath our bed is actually our own dead skin.
Within three days of death, the enzymes that once digested our dinner begin to eat you.
Our heart pumps nearly 1.5 million barrels of blood during our lifetime, enough to fill 200 train tank cars.
There is no scientific evidence that shaving or waxing will make our hair come back thicker.
There are more people alive today than have ever died.
Humans are the only animals to produce emotional tears.
People with higher number of moles tend to live longer than people with lesser number of moles.
Your tongue can get fat
Babies are born with blue eyes more than any other color. 
You’re arguably way older than you think you are.
Your sense of smell is the last thing to wake up in the morning.
Your bones start breaking down at 27.
Roughly 2kg of your body weight is bacteria.
Facial hair grows faster than any other hair on the body.
Fingernails grow nearly four times faster than toenails
When listening to music your heartbeat will sync with the rhythm
Your brain can survive for five to 10 minutes without oxygen.
Between birth and death, the human body goes from having 300 bones to just 206.
The human body contains enough fat to make seven bars of soap.
The cornea is the only part of the body with no blood supply, it gets its oxygen directly from the air.
Embryos develop fingerprints three months after conception.
Humans have a “diving reflex” that shuts down bodily functions when submerged in water to prevent drowning.
The small intestine is roughly 23 feet long.
Every organ you have two of you only need one of to survive.
There are more than 100,000 miles of blood vessels in your body.
Each person sheds 22 kilograms of skin in his or her lifetime.
Your body has enough iron in it to make a nail 3 inches long.
One in every 2000 babies is born with a tooth.
During your lifetime, you will produce enough saliva to fill two swimming pools.
One person in 20 has an extra rib and they are most often men.
There are approximately 96,000 km / 59650 miles of blood vessels in the human body.
The human head remains conscious for about 15 to 20 seconds after it has been decapitated.
The strongest muscle in the human body is the tongue and the hardest bone is the jaw bone.
Sneezes regularly exceed 100 mph while coughs clock in at about 60 mph.
The acid in your stomach is strong enough to dissolve razorblades.
We share 98.4% of our DNA with a chimp and 70% with a slug.
The brain doesn’t feel pain even though the brain processes pain signals the brain itself does not actually feel pain.
The human heart creates enough pressure to squirt blood 30 feet in the air.
The human feet have 52 bones, accounting for one-quarter of all the human body’s bones.
It is not possible to tickle yourself.
Humans have 46 chromosomes, peas have 14, and crayfish have 200.
There is enough nicotine in four or five cigarettes to kill an average adult if ingested whole.
The tooth is the only part of the human body that can’t repair itself.
Your nose can remember 50,000 different scents and women are better smellers than men.
Your body gives off enough heat in 30 minutes to bring half a gallon of water to a boil.
80% of the brain is water.
Your brain operates on 10 watts of power.
Your hearing decreases when you overheat.
The largest bone in the human body is the femur. It can support 30 times the weight of a person's body.
It would take a someone typing 60 words per minute, eight hours a day, around 50 years to type the human genome.
If a human being’s DNA were uncoiled, it would stretch 10 billion miles, from Earth to Pluto and back.
Within three days of dying, the enzymes that digested a person’s food will begin to diegest that person’s body.
For an adult human, taking just one step uses up to 200 muscles.
A human skeleton renews itself completely every 10 years.
The same skin cells that make up a human vagina are the same type of cells that are in a human mouth.
By the time a person reaches 70 years old, he or she will have consumed over 12,000 gallons of water.
The body can detect taste in 0.0015 seconds, which is faster than the blink of an eye.
The largest cell in the human body is an ovum and is barely visible to the naked eye.
The taste cells in our taste buds live for only about two weeks
Taste buds are not visible to the naked eye; the little bumps that can be seen on the tongue are actually papillae on top of which rest the taste buds.
There are ten times more bacteria cells in your body than human cells.
The brain contains 86 billion nerve cells joined by 100 trillion connections.
The lining in a person's stomach is replaced every 4 to 5 days to prevent it from digesting itself.
The human eye is so sensitive that if the Earth were flat, you could spot a candle flickering at night from up to 50 km away.
Right-handed people live on average 9 years longer than left-handed people do.
Your eyeballs are three and a half percent salt.
Your right lung is larger than your left lung.
Women's heart beats faster than men's.
Women blink twice as many times as men do.
Men get hiccups more often than women.
The largest cell in the body is the female egg and the smallest is the male sperm.
You have no sense of smell when you're sleeping.
Borborygmi is the noise or sound which our stomach makes when we are hungry.