The world has grown more complex recently, and the number of ways of measuring complexity has grown even faster. 
This multiplication of measures has been taken by some to indicate confusion in the field of complex systems. 
In fact, the many measures of complexity represent variations on a few underlying themes.
Here is an incomplete list of measures of complexity grouped into the corresponding themes.

An historical analog to the problem of measuring complexity is the problem of describing electromagnetism before Maxwell's equations. 
In the case of electromagnetism,quantities such as electric and magnetic forces that arose in different experimental contexts were fundamentally different. 
Three questions that researchers frequently ask to quantify the complexity of the thing under study are as follows - 

1. How hard is it to describe ?
2. How hard is it to create ?
3. What is its degree of organization ?

Here is a list of some measures of complexity grouped according to the question that they try to answer. 
Measures within a group are typically closely related quantities.

1. Difficulty of description. Typically measured in bits.

Information
Entropy
Algorithmic Complexity or Algorithmic Information Content
Minimum Description Length
Fisher Information
Renyi Entropy
Code Length
Chernoff Information
Dimension
Fractal Dimension
Lempel-Ziv Complexity

2. Difficulty of creation. Typically measured in time, energy, dollars, etc.

Computational Complexity
Time Computational Complexity
Space Computational Complexity
Information--Based Complexity
Logical Depth
Thermodynamic Depth
Cost
Crypticity

3. Degree of organization. This may be divided up into two quantities :-

a) Effective Complexity

Metric Entropy
Fractal Dimension
Excess Entropy
Stochastic Complexity
Sophistication
Effective Measure Complexity
True Measure Complexity
Conditional Information
Conditional Algorithmic Information Content
Schema Length
Ideal Complexity
Hierarchical Complexity
Tree subgraph diversity
Homogeneous Complexity
Grammatical Complexity

b) Mutual Information

Algorithmic Mutual Information
Channel Capacity
Correlation
Stored Information
Organization