The word sex came from the Latin ‘sexus’ meaning ‘state of being either male or female’.
It was first associated with ‘sexual intercourse’ in 1929.
Being sexually aroused makes you less likely to feel disgusted over anything or anyone.
Sexual arousal also increases your pain threshold.
30 minutes of sexual intercourse can burn approximately 200 calories.
Satisfactory sexual intercourse only lasts 3-13 minutes instead of the portrayed fantasy of having to last for hours.
The more open you are to talking about sex, the happier you are in your sex life.
Male orgasm usually comes from or includes vaginal intercourse.
On the other hand, female orgasm most likely stems from multiple sex acts.
Women tend to have a more regular menstrual cycle when they have sex at least once a week than when they do less often.
More orgasms make you more likely to live longer.
On average, the size of an erect penis is 5-7 inches in length and 4-6 inches in girth.
Sperm can survive inside the female’s body for up to 7 days.
Semelparity occurs when an animal engages in a sex episode too intense that it ends up dying.
STIs are a common disease among dolphins.
On average, a sex session passes with 100-500 thrusts.
Marriage strengthens the skeletons of men who wait until after 25 to marry.
Alabama prohibits any sort of sex toy trade and is the only state upholding said law.
Dogs tend to get sleepy during intercourse due to the ‘rest and digest’ function that orgasms activate in their nervous system.
Whales have the largest penis in the animal kingdom with an average length of 10 feet.
Humans go through a 4-phase sexual-response cycle during intercourse.
All 4 phases of the sexual-response cycle happen to both men and women but with different timing.
It is not only the genitals but the entire body which has the capability to experience arousal, stimulation, and pleasure.
Sexual intercourse should never be painful for anyone engaging in it.
Sex is beneficial for your health as it is for your pleasure.
Sex was found to induce improved sleep.
Sex improves bladder control among women.
Sex counts as an excellent form of exercise.
Having sex frequently increases the quality of a man’s sperm.
Your brain system might have an influence over the number of sexual partners that you have had or will have.
Most women are not able to climax by vaginal intercourse alone.
Abstaining from any sexual activity for 3 weeks might just be the trick for the ultimate orgasm.
Women whose vaginas have direct exposure to semen turn out less prone to depression.
An Oakland University research found that cunnilingus served as a retention strategy for men.
It is normal for your body temperature to increase during arousal.
It is possible for a person to reach orgasm while sleeping.
Your sleep position can provoke sex dreams.
Wine aroma has stimulating effects on both genders.
The term ‘fetish’ came from the Portuguese word ‘feitico’ which means ‘charm’ or ‘sorcery.’
According to a physician, women have the upper hand in the bedroom when it comes to orgasmic advantages.
The sole purpose of the clitoris is for a woman’s pleasure.
The clitoris is the female’s version of a tiny penis.
The clitoris has 8,000 nerve endings.
The English language recognizes around 1,000 vulva euphemisms.
The vagina is a self-cleaning organ.
That weird sound that you hear during sex is not ‘vagina fart.’
Clitoral atrophy befalls a woman who do not have sex for long periods.
Nipple only pertains to the center portion of the breast, while the pigmented area around it is called areola.
Female nipples were once used to diagnose the health of women in olden times.
Nipple piercings were found to generate positive emotions.
Sexual arousal can also come from nipple stimulation for both genders.
'Nipplegasm’ is a real thing for women.
Both men and women are attracted to nipples.
A woman’s menstrual cycle affects her libido due to hormonal fluctuations.
Women tend to be more attractive during ovulation.
Birth control can have an effect on how women perceive men.
The most orgasms award goes to the lesbians.
Size does not really matter as much as the media makes it seem.
A man’s body odor is a turn on for women.
A man’s fingers have a connection to his testosterone levels.
Priapism occurs when even after ejaculation, a sore erection still persists.
Men may struggle to get it on with a partner after too many self performances.
The source of stimulation affects the size.
High cholesterol is one cause of erectile dysfunction.
The infamous g-spot is not exclusive for the ladies.
Men can be categorized into ‘growers’ and ‘showers’ based on their thang.
A teaspoon of semen carries an approximate calorie count of 5.
Neither the number of sexual acts nor the size of a partner or toy affects the color or size of the vagina and labia of a woman.
Fertilization is not necessarily a race among sperm towards the egg.
Switching positions while the penis is still inside the vagina can cause penile fracture.
Monogamy is not so common among animals.
Honey bees engaging in sex are in for sexual suicide.
Bed bugs reproduction takes a brutal form called the ‘traumatic insemination.’
Male black widow spiders have to incline into an angle between the female’s fangs during coitus.
Pandas have hidden sensual talents.
In spite of their talents, pandas in captivity are hesitant in mating.
During an erection, an elephant penis can be as heavy as 30kg.
Chimpanzees have spined penises.
Cats also have spined or barbed penises, but for a different purpose.
Sadly, forced sex is a common occurrence among birds.
A female chicken’s version of dumping a partner is by ejecting his sperm from her body.
It is more common for animals to pleasure themselves rather than seek opportunities with others.
Male alligators don't erect penises their whole lives.
It is possible for animals to switch roles in producing eggs and producing sperms during their lifetimes.
Male shark genitalia is referred to as ‘claspers’ rather than penises.
When sexually frustrated, a dolphin is not as cute and cuddly as it may seem.
Sea otter also has a dark side when it comes to sensuality.
Smaller marine iguanas apply auto-eroticism by rubbing themselves against rocks while advancing toward procreative females.
Sperm can last up to 5 years inside a female snake.
Male snakes boast of having 2 penises called ‘hemipenes.’
Some invertebrates like snails and slugs possess both male and female sex organs.
The signature rock-like motionless positions of barnacles become a challenge in fertilization during the mating season.
Lubricants are the top-seller among all sex toys.
R-rated film Fifty Shades of Grey piqued the sale of bondage materials.
Vibrators started as a cure for women hysterics.
Japan helps disabled people reach the big O.
People tend to marry partners with a similar DNA pattern as theirs.
Faking orgasms is not as bad as you think it is.
Feeling sad after sex is a real condition.
The most common sexually transmitted disease in the US is chlamydia.